the US dollar has been declining after a
large run-up as the world recalibrates
to the tectonic shifts which have
occurred in January 2017 with the petrol
dollar holding its reserve currency
status no other currency can be as
powerful but a weaker currency can also
be beneficial particularly in times of
exporting goods some countries make this
an unofficial official policy in order
to keep their economy rising you came
here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you let's get
into this today I have a bunch of things
to cover I generally want to focus on
the u.s. dollar though US dollars
January performance as a percent
remember that as a percentage so we're
talking about January performance in
particular and you can see what happens
right here all the way back to the
Reagan era decline in a short period of
time now percentage-wise it's only a few
percent over this little while actually
I'll show you in the article coming up
but it's just showing you in terms of
percentage we're seeing a big decline
and I think there's a lot to that I
don't think it's necessarily okay here
it is this the dollar crashing there's
going to be a collapse tomorrow no
that's not what this is more to that
let's get into some of that right now
the greenback fell to a fresh low for
the session extending losses against all
of its g10 peers as the bloomberg Dollar
Index dropped to its lowest since
mid-november with the drop accelerating
as Trump claimed other countries will
devalue their currencies or that they do
actually come in November obviously
we're looking at that timeframe of
everything that's happened with Trump
and ever since so this right here to
that fresh low two point four three
percent on the Treasury 10-year this is
the thing that you need to watch I
actually should really do a video
about this about how important it is to
follow not necessarily as an investment
but to understand the debt whether
that's you know we're looking at the
Treasuries and in a comparison to the
stock market and understanding both and
how they correlate together and really
need to do a video about that the
decline may have been exacerbated by a
month and flows from portfolio
rebalancing you know they always try to
make an excuse for this and that I think
there's a lot of manipulation that goes
on and a lot of it is just fluctuations
when you look at it over let's say even
yearly charts or five-year tenure and
everything else they just look like
little blips along the way so there's
more in here but let's move on I want to
show you this it was a very interesting
chart in fact I will include it in the
description I'm sure a lot of this font
may not be readable to you so I'm going
to cover it quickly and then move on
it's basically the history of the world
reserve currencies over time and just in
case anyone out there is unsure of this
just open the pages of history and you
will see that no way the US dollar
wasn't always supreme every so often
they say about 30 to 40 years but I you
know depends how far back you want to go
the world goes on a new currency system
a new monetary system and you're looking
at you know Portugal you're looking at
Spain you're looking at basically all of
these other countries that goes up and
then to me and believe that's the United
Nations suggesting something for the
future but anyway all I want to note was
that as the years go on there are
different empires those empires have
their currency that currency is able to
be strong the country is able to be
strong but eventually it dies off and
the u.s. in fact according to this is
basically at the top-end for what is
considered to be a long Empire so you
know at some point this needs to change
that's just the way it is the dollar
cannot reign supreme forever and I do
believe at some point we will have a new
monetary system but what exactly will
that be will there be a one-world
currency well according to the world's
world bank's former chief economist he
wants there to be a replacement of the
US dollar and instead have a single
global super currency saying that it's
going to create a more stable global
financial system this isn't new
information but I just believe that it
tied in so I would like to add it here
the dominance of the greenback is the
root cause I disagree of the global
financial and economic crisis the
solution to this is to replace the
national currency with a global currency
I don't necessarily think that having
the US dollar as the reserve currency is
the best thing to do but I believe
wholeheartedly that having the US dollar
as the reserve is better than having
something like the IMF's
SDR that's even worse we need to you
know go backwards in this case not
forwards we need to go into something
more stable not something with even less
intrinsic value with even more
manipulation can take place and with
less oversight very important they also
talked about China and here the European
Union here but as I said it's sort of
outdated information but you know it's
still relevant I thought this was
interesting so I wanted to bring it up
Japan's pension mega fund to invest in
u.s. infrastructure that's good news for
the US and I believe it's better
for Japan even then investing in garbage
like buying up their own stock market
buying up their own debt I mean this is
just completely waste at least investing
in something for real even if it was a
bridge to nowhere do you understand what
I'm saying I'd rather have public works
projects than printing money and buying
up that and have it you know recycle
itself around I mean that is just
complete garbage so this is at least
some positive news everyone's looking
for positivity you know I guess that's
positive this year I thought was very
interesting there's there's two articles
I'm just gonna briefly cover before we
end the video
two things that Trump had a phone call
with the head of state Australia's head
of state he's calling all the different
head of states what was supposed to be a
peaceful and normal phone call ended up
finishing I believe instead of an hour
long it ends up finishing in 25 minutes
it was supposed to be peaceful and it
was not peaceful at all there was a
little bit of banter coming from Trump
apparently and this isn't good I mean
there supposed to be some positivity
happening from these type of phone calls
I don't know what this is all about I
mean there's you can't just judge it for
the way it is when we see things on the
news and immediately you know
particularly out of Washington Post
since they're quite negative against
Trump it is very biased we'll see we'll
see when the actions take place whose
side you know everybody is on and and
what happens the ripple effect of all of
that so I just wanted to bring it up too
and then secondarily you've probably
heard of this already but I believe it
was important to cover Donald Trump
threatened in a phone call with his
Mexican counterpart to send US troops to
stop the bad hombres down there unless
the Mexican military does more to
control them but that's according to an
excerpt of a transcript of the
conference
obtained by The Associated Press okay we
don't know if that's accurate I'm not
going to you know say that this is true
but basically what happened was the
Mexican president is talking to Donald
Trump and they said look Donald Trump
said look you got some problems going on
down there
and we are going to send our troops in
if you don't handle it I think that's
basically considering that there's going
to be a war there going to be an
invasion I don't think that's really
something that he would say to be very
clear I mean I know he's a blunt
individual but not something like that I
mean it could be if it is I think
there's going to be a big mess happening
but I don't I don't think that was
really the case and I want to follow
this I want to see that you know if any
other news comes out about this if you
have any information about it of course
pulls down below if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
if you find this better then you can
give it a thumbs down I just thought
that would be a little funny too and the
video off if you found the video
informative then I know you'll find my
book the money GPS even more informative
look you can actually look through this
book if you go over to Amazon they have
a look inside feature that will allow
you to flip through the pages of the
book and see if you like it take care